_pages/resources.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /resources/
title: Resources
description: A list of resources for power system engineers and applied mathematicians
nav: false
nav_order: 4
---
###### :computer: The following lists some of the open source power system tools that might be helpful for students and academic researchers. 

1. Power System Dynamics, DAE modeling, simulation, and control: [ANDES](https://github.com/curent/andes)
2. Steady state power flow simulation and optimization for MATLAB and Octave: [MATPOWER](https://github.com/MATPOWER/matpower)
3. Power Distribution System Simulator: [OpenDSS](https://sourceforge.net/projects/electricdss/)
4. Steady State Power System Analysis: [Pandapower](https://github.com/e2nIEE/pandapower)
5. Power Sysstem Optimization : [PyPSA](https://github.com/PyPSA/PyPSA)

###### :books: Books and Courses that I recommend for anyone willing to learn power systems are given below. Please note that for learning power system dynamics and control, and be recognized in the industry for your work,  familiarity with matrix algebra, network analysis, and basic power system analysis are essential. Knowledge of electromechanical energy conversion at the level of Fitzgerald, Kingsley, and Kusko is important. Basics of power system analysis at the level of one of the standard textbooks on this subject (Stevenson, Glover, Sarma, & Overbye, etc.) is recommended. Finally, understanding of classical feedback control system theory is useful (Nise, Franklin, Ogata, etc.):

1. Beginner level power system analysis by Stevenson & Grainger. This book is a great introduction to power system analysis and is highly recommended as a first course in power systems. Power System Analysis : [Stevenson Book](https://www.amazon.com/Analysis-Grainger-Professor-Electrical-Engineering/dp/0070612935)
2. Another beginner level power system analysis book by Hadi Saadat. This book is also a great introduction to power system and can be used with the book by Stevenson. Power System Analysis Third Edition : [Hadi Saadat Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Analysis-Third-Saadat-dp-0984543864/dp/0984543864/ref=dp_ob_title_bk#customerReviews)
3. Tom Overbye's teaching webpage at TAMU has made all its courses free to public. It's a treasure trove of knowledge and I highly recommend budding power system engineers to learn from this excellent resource. Also please take a look at his book from where I learned the basics of power systems analysis more than a decade back.
Book link : [Glover Sarma Overbye Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Analysis-Design-SI/dp/035767619X/ref=sr_1_3?qid=1688870893&refinements=p_27%3AThomas+Overbye&s=books&sr=1-3); 
Course Link : [Overbye Course](https://overbye.engr.tamu.edu/course-2/)
4. Power System Dynamics and Stability by Peter W. Sauer and M. A. Pai. This book is a fantastic theoretical introduction to the complex concepts of power system dynamics. The book is available for free in this link : [Sauer & Pai Book](https://courses.physics.illinois.edu/ece576/sp2018/Sauer%20and%20Pai%20book%20-%20Jan%202007.pdf)
5. An introductory four set of lectures by Prof 
Yoash Levron & Prof Juri Belikov. I recommend these four lectures for a begineer friendly introduction to power system dynamics before going in depth with some of the books mentioned later. [Levron & Belikov Lectures](https://a-lab.ee/projects/dq0-dynamics)
6. The book that every power power system engineer who would like to understand dynamics needs to read at some point is the one by Dr. Kundur on Power System Stability and Control. I read the first edition years back and is linked here : [Kundur 1st Edition Book ](https://www.amazon.com/System-Stability-Control-Prabha-Kundur/dp/007035958X). There is also a recent 2nd edition of this book available here : [Kundur 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Stability-Control-Second-dp-1260473546/dp/1260473546/ref=dp_ob_title_bk)
7. Power System Dynamics: Stability and Control 3rd Edition, John Wiley & Sons by Jan Machowski, Zbigniew Lubosny, Janusz W. Bialek, James R. Bumby (2020):  [Machowski Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Dynamics-Stability-Control/dp/1119526345/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=)
8. Power System Control and Stability, 3rd Edition,John Wiley & Sons by Vijay Vittal, James D. McCalley, Paul M. Anderson, A. A. Fouad (2019.): [Vittal Book](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Control+and+Stability,+3rd+Edition-p-9781119433712)
9. Power System Dynamics by James McCalley, EE554 at Iowa State. Closely follows his book above: [EE554: Iowa State Course](https://home.engineering.iastate.edu/~jdm/ee554/schedule.htm)
10. Power System Dynamics and Stability: With Synchrophasor Measurement and Power System Toolbox, 2nd Edition, by Peter W. Sauer, M. A. Pai, Joe H. Chow. This is a new edition to the classic 1st edition of Sauer and Pai: [Sauer, Pai, Chow 2nd Ed Book](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Dynamics+and+Stability:+With+Synchrophasor+Measurement+and+Power+System+Toolbox,+2nd+Edition-p-9781119355779)
11.  Power System Dynamics and Stability, EE 552 by Baosen Zhang, University of Washington! Course Link : [Baosen Zhang, F22 Course](https://zhangbaosen.github.io/teaching/EE552)   
12.  Protective Relaying: Principles and Applications, 4th Edition by  J. Lewis Blackburn, & Thomas J. Domin: [Blackburn, Protective Relaying Book](https://www.amazon.com/Protective-Relaying-Principles-Applications-Fourth/dp/1439888116/ref=sr_1_3?crid=2OHAFVSLHK9XE&keywords=power+system+protection+blackburn&qid=1689083909&sprefix=power+system+protection+blackburn%2Caps%2C188&sr=8-3)
13.  Power System Protective Relaying by J.C Das. This book is a bit more up-to-date than Blackburn. [J.C Das Protective Relaying Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Protective-Relaying-Das/dp/0367735628)
14.  Power System Protection, 2nd Edition, by Paul M. Anderson, Charles F. Henville, Rasheek Rifaat, Brian Johnson, Sakis Meliopoulos: [Anderson Book 2nd Edition](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Protection,+2nd+Edition-p-9781119513148)
15. Power System Protection and Relaying, ECE 525 by Brian K. Johnson. Follows his book that is linked in [15] above : [UIdaho ECE525 Course](https://webpages.uidaho.edu/ece/ee/power/ECE525/)
16. A protection book from GE Grid Solutions, available completely for free! [GE: Protection Book](https://rpa.energy.mn/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/network-protection-and-automation-guide-book.pdf)

Commit message:

resources : hui interview questions added

_pages/resources.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /resources/
title: Resources
description: A list of resources for power system engineers and applied mathematicians
nav: false
nav_order: 4
---
###### :computer: The following lists some of the open source power system tools that might be helpful for students and academic researchers (If you are working in the industry, you will probably not need any of these!). 

1. Power System Dynamics, DAE modeling, simulation, and control: [ANDES](https://github.com/curent/andes)
2. Steady state power flow simulation and optimization for MATLAB and Octave: [MATPOWER](https://github.com/MATPOWER/matpower)
3. Power Distribution System Simulator: [OpenDSS](https://sourceforge.net/projects/electricdss/)
4. Steady State Power System Analysis: [Pandapower](https://github.com/e2nIEE/pandapower)
5. Power Sysstem Optimization : [PyPSA](https://github.com/PyPSA/PyPSA)

###### :books: Books and Courses that I recommend for anyone willing to learn power systems are given below. Please note that for learning power system dynamics and control, and be recognized in the industry for your work,  familiarity with matrix algebra, network analysis, and basic power system analysis are essential. Knowledge of electromechanical energy conversion at the level of Fitzgerald, Kingsley, and Kusko is important. Basics of power system analysis at the level of one of the standard textbooks on this subject (Stevenson, Glover, Sarma, & Overbye, etc.) is recommended. Finally, understanding of classical feedback control system theory is useful (Nise, Franklin, Ogata, etc.):

1. Beginner level power system analysis by Stevenson & Grainger. This book is a great introduction to power system analysis and is highly recommended as a first course in power systems. Power System Analysis : [Stevenson Book](https://www.amazon.com/Analysis-Grainger-Professor-Electrical-Engineering/dp/0070612935)
2. Another beginner level power system analysis book by Hadi Saadat. This book is also a great introduction to power system and can be used with the book by Stevenson. Power System Analysis Third Edition : [Hadi Saadat Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Analysis-Third-Saadat-dp-0984543864/dp/0984543864/ref=dp_ob_title_bk#customerReviews)
3. Tom Overbye's teaching webpage at TAMU has made all its courses free to public. It's a treasure trove of knowledge and I highly recommend budding power system engineers to learn from this excellent resource. Also please take a look at his book from where I learned the basics of power systems analysis more than a decade back.
Book link : [Glover Sarma Overbye Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Analysis-Design-SI/dp/035767619X/ref=sr_1_3?qid=1688870893&refinements=p_27%3AThomas+Overbye&s=books&sr=1-3); 
Course Link : [Overbye Course](https://overbye.engr.tamu.edu/course-2/)
4. Power System Dynamics and Stability by Peter W. Sauer and M. A. Pai. This book is a fantastic theoretical introduction to the complex concepts of power system dynamics. The book is available for free in this link : [Sauer & Pai Book](https://courses.physics.illinois.edu/ece576/sp2018/Sauer%20and%20Pai%20book%20-%20Jan%202007.pdf)
5. An introductory four set of lectures by Prof 
Yoash Levron & Prof Juri Belikov. I recommend these four lectures for a begineer friendly introduction to power system dynamics before going in depth with some of the books mentioned later. [Levron & Belikov Lectures](https://a-lab.ee/projects/dq0-dynamics)
6. The book that every power power system engineer who would like to understand dynamics needs to read at some point is the one by Dr. Kundur on Power System Stability and Control. I read the first edition years back and is linked here : [Kundur 1st Edition Book ](https://www.amazon.com/System-Stability-Control-Prabha-Kundur/dp/007035958X). There is also a recent 2nd edition of this book available here : [Kundur 2nd Edition](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Stability-Control-Second-dp-1260473546/dp/1260473546/ref=dp_ob_title_bk)
7. Power System Dynamics: Stability and Control 3rd Edition, John Wiley & Sons by Jan Machowski, Zbigniew Lubosny, Janusz W. Bialek, James R. Bumby (2020):  [Machowski Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Dynamics-Stability-Control/dp/1119526345/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=)
8. Power System Control and Stability, 3rd Edition,John Wiley & Sons by Vijay Vittal, James D. McCalley, Paul M. Anderson, A. A. Fouad (2019.): [Vittal Book](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Control+and+Stability,+3rd+Edition-p-9781119433712)
9. Power System Dynamics by James McCalley, EE554 at Iowa State. Closely follows his book above: [EE554: Iowa State Course](https://home.engineering.iastate.edu/~jdm/ee554/schedule.htm)
10. Power System Dynamics and Stability: With Synchrophasor Measurement and Power System Toolbox, 2nd Edition, by Peter W. Sauer, M. A. Pai, Joe H. Chow. This is a new edition to the classic 1st edition of Sauer and Pai: [Sauer, Pai, Chow 2nd Ed Book](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Dynamics+and+Stability:+With+Synchrophasor+Measurement+and+Power+System+Toolbox,+2nd+Edition-p-9781119355779)
11.  Power System Dynamics and Stability, EE 552 by Baosen Zhang, University of Washington! Course Link : [Baosen Zhang, F22 Course](https://zhangbaosen.github.io/teaching/EE552)   
12.  Protective Relaying: Principles and Applications, 4th Edition by  J. Lewis Blackburn, & Thomas J. Domin: [Blackburn, Protective Relaying Book](https://www.amazon.com/Protective-Relaying-Principles-Applications-Fourth/dp/1439888116/ref=sr_1_3?crid=2OHAFVSLHK9XE&keywords=power+system+protection+blackburn&qid=1689083909&sprefix=power+system+protection+blackburn%2Caps%2C188&sr=8-3)
13.  Power System Protective Relaying by J.C Das. This book is a bit more up-to-date than Blackburn. [J.C Das Protective Relaying Book](https://www.amazon.com/Power-System-Protective-Relaying-Das/dp/0367735628)
14.  Power System Protection, 2nd Edition, by Paul M. Anderson, Charles F. Henville, Rasheek Rifaat, Brian Johnson, Sakis Meliopoulos: [Anderson Book 2nd Edition](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Power+System+Protection,+2nd+Edition-p-9781119513148)
15. Power System Protection and Relaying, ECE 525 by Brian K. Johnson. Follows his book that is linked in [15] above : [UIdaho ECE525 Course](https://webpages.uidaho.edu/ece/ee/power/ECE525/)
16. A protection book from GE Grid Solutions, available completely for free! [GE: Protection Book](https://rpa.energy.mn/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/network-protection-and-automation-guide-book.pdf)


###### Miscellaneous:

1. Excellent Power System Interview Questions for entry level positions by Dr. Hui Zhang. Cheat Code : If you ever happen to  interview with me expect at least one or two questions or some variants from this list! 
[Hui: Power Systems Engineer Interview Questions](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/10-questions-you-must-prepare-power-systems-engineer-interview-zhang/)
